that's all spring last night what
happens here in the center of Salisbury
resulted in teams wearing full
protective suits effective say they are
keeping those in mind about users and
wanting to find out whether a crime has
been committed
[Music]
I've been opposed to a stretch of Public
Health agreements when this incident
happened
so it's already really busy morning we'd
have the beast from the east that
weekend and I got a phone call on my way
into work
it was superintendent Dave minty that
called him loose till the dough and
started to outline the specifics of
terminals that it had found in a very
poorly state in Salisbury other Sunday
afternoon and from that there's a lot of
questions and it couldn't quite be
answered on that call people who took
ill at the Maltings yesterday are sergey
and julius crippled father and daughter
they're Russian okay it was clear it was
really unusual because of the speed of
the onset of symptoms we quickly had
worked out where they've been that
afternoons we knew that with bed big to
a bar we also knew that they've been to
a restaurant but for it to be onset of
symptoms as a result of that if it makes
sense they didn't quite fit a profile of
somebody that would have used illegal
substances or drugs in any way so there
was just a lot of questions around it
nothing quite pieced together
so you knew instinctively it was quite
unusual obviously it'd be over the
coming hours and days where the true
impact and following in with that had
really become known
for nerve agents be used in this context
was horrifying really but there wasn't
any guidebook from it at all we were
working on that as we went this was an
extraordinary event and thankfully it
was an extraordinary event that was
handled by some extraordinary people
there is a cast of many that worked on
this and the cast of hundreds behind
them and you always said that people's
true selves emerge in moments of stress
we should be incredibly honored because
what I saw was the very best of people
and it's been an honor to be part of
that team it was developed by the USSR
during the Cold War and it's one of the
deadliest synthetic substances on earth
it's so toxic that a spoonful with the
right delivery mechanism could kill
thousands Salisbury hospital has
declared a major incident myself and a
colleague went down in those early days
we met with the residents that lived
closest to the house and just to try and
get a sense of what their anxiety was
and what their needs were to work
through what was incredible set of
circumstances for them the intrusion
into their private space was quite
phenomenal
[Music]
Director of Public Health for Walter
my kids were playing here this morning I
went a bloody explanation and they want
it now let's see what you make me a
cuppa and I'll tell you everything I got
a sir
right yeah
the days were easily 18 20 hours long
for those first early weeks of response
the exhaustion was tempered by the fact
that you were so incredibly busy so you
didn't realize the hours that were
passing it was only on those tough
moments when you did get home and you
did realize that you hunts their eyes on
any member of your family for four or
five days it's only on reflection that
you actually realized what that impact
was at the time you don't have time to
think about it there's a job to do and
that's what you're focused on as we've
started to open up and talk about it
more as a family and friends and you do
realize that your your absence creates
something that you don't quite expected
there was a moment with Toby where the
absence had become apparent Holmes I'm
so sorry Mikey I'll come back we
yourself sound of it
don't follow me hearing Ted's account of
my daughter's account and friends
accounts of Isis accounts there about
our absent I was even when I was there
in body did that there was one night
open but Ed give me a shot and saying I
can hear you thinking go to sleep
because you just didn't switch off yeah
and the way I would jump if the Fae
dragon get just my reactions the things
have changed I haven't seen them with
myself but other people have noted them
forming from a family or friends point
of view I've learnt strength and
vulnerability and the strength of some
people around B but also how vulnerable
some relationships that I really
regarded to speak quite strong how
furnivall they were it has cost me
friends you know there are friends that
have made their feelings known and that
is really sad I missed a friend's
wedding guy mister friends husband's
funeral
so those very crucial landmark things
that you will never get back and that
will leave scars on friendships and but
for at the time there was nothing more I
could do than to be focused on this
I will see you soon love fee man you
must oppose the most challenge of the
heart of this happened with the second
incident I had worked with Dawn's three
years prior to the incident on on a
project a community project she had been
one of the people that had come from
from from the community to work with us
and give us her views so when it was her
photo that was shared on that morning it
really hit me I knew and that she was a
mom I knew how funny she was over at her
she was a very very big character and to
realize that somebody as vibrant as that
and had been well at that point
contaminated in this way and obviously a
few days later for her to lose her life
that for me as and will remain the most
heroine part of all of this
[Music]
whether you can say a place is recovered
I don't know because I don't know how
you can truly assess how whether the the
place was ever broken by this or whether
it immediately rallied and showed the
strength against that level of adversity
an amazing town of 50 and with very
unique communities and a unique offer
and and that remains that hasn't been
blighted by the events there
[Music]
you